# QuiX - Simple Quiz Application

QuiX is a simple and interactive quiz application designed to challenge and entertain users with a variety of trivia questions. Whether you want to test your knowledge, have fun with friends, or learn something new, QuiX has you covered.

## Features

### Quiz Layout & Flow

- **Start Page**: Begin your quiz journey by submitting your email address.
- **Questions**: You'll face a total of 15 thought-provoking questions.
- **Timer**: Keep an eye on the timer at the top of the page, counting down from 30 minutes. The quiz will auto-submit when the timer reaches zero.

### Navigation

- **Navigate to Specific Questions**: If you want to revisit a previous question or jump ahead, QuiX allows you to navigate to any question.
- **Overview Panel**: An overview panel keeps track of your progress, indicating:
  - Which questions you've visited.
  - Which questions you've attempted.

### End of Quiz

- **Report Page**: Once you complete the quiz or when the timer expires, QuiX directs you to a report page.
- The report page displays each question along with your answer and the correct answer side by side for easy comparison.

### Data Source

- QuiX fetches quiz questions from the [Open Trivia Database API](https://opentdb.com/api.php?amount=15).
- The questions are sourced from the `question` parameter in the API response.
- Choices for each question are generated by combining the `correct_answer` and `incorrect_answers` parameters.
- The correct answer for each question is available in the `correct_answer` parameter.

## Getting Started

To try out QuiX on your local machine, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository:

   ```shell
   git clone <repository-url>
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```shell
   cd QuiX
   ```

3. Install dependencies for both the frontend and backend:

   ```shell
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ../backend
   npm install
   ```

4. Start the frontend and backend servers:

   ```shell
   # In the frontend directory
   npm start

   # In the backend directory
   npm start
   ```

5. Access the QuiX application in your web browser at `http://localhost:3000`.

## Tech Stack

QuiX is built using the following technologies:

- Frontend: [React.js](https://reactjs.org/)
- Backend: [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/)
- Data Source: [Open Trivia Database API](https://opentdb.com/api.php?amount=15)

## Contributions

QuiX is an open-source project, and contributions are welcome! Feel free to create issues or submit pull requests to enhance QuiX and make it even better.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Enjoy using QuiX and happy quizzing!
